---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Newsletter #3"
date:   2019-01-20
---

As slight change to the way I write this newsletter, I shall this week bullet point the main items. The aim of this weekly newsletter is to keep everyone up to date with what is going on, but unfortunately the response to items in the past has led me to believe that this sheet is not being read. It could be that information is being lost amidst the text so hence the slight change.

# Capitation
Once again thank you to all those who have paid their capitation(membership fee) and a reminder to those yet to pay,  that we only have until the end of February in which to do it

# Green Towers
A reminder that our cubs are at Green Towers on WEDNESDAY next week, for a session on the climbing wall starting at the usual time of 6pm but extending to 7-30pm. Subs will need to be paid as per usual although as stated last week it will not cover the GT fee, but the difference will be made up from group funds. The cubs having met on the Wednesday at GT will NOT meet at the centre on Thursday of this week,but back to normal next week.

# Young Leader
We are very fortunate within our group to have a fairly large leadership team,although I am always looking for more and indeed I am in talks with 2 adults at the moment to try and boost those numbers, any more would be very welcome, so if you or someone you know would like to be considered as leaders let me know.
Along those same lines we are equally fortunate in other areas,because at the meeting of our executive committee last Wednesday I gained approval for the group to finance our first Young Leader, so as of this week we are officially joined by Tyler, with me having gained the approval of his explorer leader, and that decision being forwarded to the District Secretary he becomes our first Young Leader.

Having in many, but not all cases, come up through the different sections of scouting, from beavers to cubs then to scouts, our youngsters having reached 14 years of age scouts then move to explorers, where to some, sadly, that will be the end of their scouting life, this is by no means compulsory as they can remain as explorer until the age of 18yrs, when they can then move on to Network. On reaching the age of 14 yrs and a scout joins explorers, some of them show signs of possible leadership, and that is to be nurtured as these young leaders are our leaders of the future, and indeed the continuation of scouting long after many of us have hung up our woggles. Tyler showed such leadership traits and we the leadership team and the whole scouting movement now begin training him to be,in the fullness of time, a full leader. Congratulations to Tyler, and I ask that every member of our group, whether a youngster,  a leader, an exec member or a parent, give him the fullest support as he starts on his long road to helping to fulfill Baden Powells dream of scouting for ever.

# Executive Committee
In my introduction to this newsletter I mentioned that for whatever reason, this newsletter is not being read, this was highlighted last Wednesday,  when we had an executive committee meeting, and inspite of me inviting everyone to nominate themselves for the committee, only 4 people turned up. You will remember that the purpose of the exec committee is to run the business side of our group. In addition to the more mundane duties of ensuring charity commission compliance, licences, HMRC compliance, etc it also covers fundraising which is the lifeblood of our group. You will have seen on our closed fb page recently, a photo of some items we have been able to purchase as a result of fundraising carried out in the run up to Christmas.That was a very successful but also a very hectic and time consuming period, with on some occasions 2 or more events on the same day. Who provided the labour for these events? The answer is the leaders and some of the executive committee and just a few parents and carers. On 4th February we celebrate only our 3rd birthday since we re-formed after our years of closure. We started on that day with no youngsters, 2 leaders and a door wide open. From those very humble beginnings and the first 2 boys who came through that door on that evening(and they are still with us now) we have grown to what we are today. In order to continue our growth we need young people, yes. We are getting them virtually every week and we need to equip them with what they need. We need leaders, yes. I will work to recruit more, even though we are recruiting faster than any group in the district. We need money gained from fundraising, yes. We need parents and carers to get involved and help with the fundraising and take the strain off the leaders who need to devote more of their time to leading. Leaders will help with fundraising, of course they will, but they need you to do the organising of events. After we are clear of the machinations of Capitation, we have another exec committee meeting in March, when the date is announced, come forward and help us, the more we get the easier the job becomes. Our young people are relying on us, all of us, to provide for them what they need, and to give them the best scouting experience we possibly can.

# Scouts District Shooting Camp
A reminder for our scouts that 2nd March is the date of the district scouts shooting competition. Unlike the other occasions when we have met at the district shooting range at Britannia scout HQ, where in most cases it was just a try out, this time it is competitive. We are not asking you to win, but if by doing your best you happen to win that would be great, we as a group will be quite happy at you doing your best, even if you come last.Taking part with the right attitude is the important thing.

# Ashby Magna Steam Fair
June 14th /15th/16th is the date that our scouts are at the above steam fair, doing the litter pick on the festival fields,  in return for a donation from the organisers that will go towards the Charnwood fees for those scouts taking part in the pick.

# Gang Show 2020
I have spoken to the producer of the show and although it has not been finally decided yet, she is very hopeful that the show will take place in the spring of 2020. You may be thinking that is a long way off, but once the decision is made to go ahead, which will be in the next few weeks, rehearsals for scouts and explorers will begin in September, whilst rehearsals for beavers and cubs will begin in the new year. The reason for the different starts is that the law does not allow beavers and cubs to appear in the second half of the show, due to their ages,leaving the scouts explorers and leaders to do the majority of the show, hence their need for more rehearsal time. As soon as I know when registration is I will Let you know.

# Badge Evidence
As mentioned earlier we are still getting young people coming to join us, and long may that continue, but for the benefit of our new members and maybe some of our not so new members,could I remind you that if you do things at home that contribute to the requirements of a badge, take a photo and put it on our fb page or bring it in, or in the case of swimming or martial arts or dancing get a note or certificate from your instructor or sensei and bring that in. In the case of newer members you can still earn your badge even though you have not yet got a uniform or made your promise.

# Gift Aid
Gift aid is as the name implies an aid to a gift. In our case the aid comes to us from the government, whereby for every £1 you give to us as a gift in subs ,in fundraising or as a donation, they will give us 25p. Where did that 25p come from? The answer is you, it is the income tax, insurance tax, airport tax and some of the miriad of other taxes you have paid the government over a period of time. Dont worry it wont cost you any more, you have already paid it in your PAYE, in the element of your car insurance that no one mentions that is insurance tax, in the element of your package holiday cost that is airport tax, and to top it all, there is no way in law other than gift aid in which you can get it back. But you cant have it, it can only go to charitable organisations such as us. Given the choice,who would you rather have the money, the government or us, who will use it to benefit your child and others. How do we get it? It is dead simple you fill in a gift aid form, hand it over at the subs desk, job done.
Quick, easy, cost free, painless. Our treasurer then adds your name to our GDPR compliant list that goes to HMRC and they send him a cheque which even for a group of our size will be for many hundreds of pounds. Thats the cost of the damaged tent replacement paid for,or the tables broken on camp we had to replace, now isn't that better than giving it to the government. Just fill in the form and on behalf of our young people thank you very much.

As always your leaders look forward to seeing you all again next week, either at Green Towers for cubs and the centre for everyone else,in the meantime as ever take care,be kind to others, look after yourselves but most of all stay safe.
