---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Newsletter #1 - Happy New Year"
date:   2019-01-06
---
As the above reference number shows, this is the first newsletter of 2019, so a very happy new year to you all. We return for our first meeting of the year on Thursday 10th January 6pm to 7pm for beavers and cubs and 7-15pm to 8-45pm for scouts.

The district scouts archery club meets from 7pm to 8-30pm on Tuesday 8th January at Westfield communitty centre cost just £2

Starting as we are on a new, and what promises to be, a very busy and exciting new year, we look ahead to what we know to be in store for us. It is to be our first full year with all 3 sections up and running, it is our first full year with leaders who have successfully been through the appointments panel, and are now approved as leaders,  to be followed fairly soon by those who could not attend the last panel, and many of them will later on this year achieve their wood badges, signifying that they are fully trained as leaders, it is a year when for the first time we shall be sending our scouts to Charnwood 19 the international camp at the end of July.

In order to earn some money towards the cost of attending Charnwood,  our scouts will be doing the litter picking at Ashby Magna steam fair on the fathers day weekend of 15th/16th June.

The surprising thing is that on 4th February 2019, we shall only be celebrating our 3rd birthday since we reformed. To be where we are today in such a short space of time is remarkable, and only achieved because of the hard work and dedication of the leaders, members of the executive committee and some very willing parents, to all of them,  on behalf of our young members, for whose benefit we are doing it , Thank you very much.

We are not finished yet, as I have said before, as scouting we are a movement, and not an organisation, and as such we must continue to move and to grow. We have no plans at present to expand the group in terms of sections, any more than we have thus far. Our scouts, just starting their senior journey, will be with us for 4 years before we need to worry about which explorer unit they will move to, or whether we need to consider starting our own. We will however use the time to consolidate what we have, possibly with the addition of 1 or 2 more leaders, in order to spread the load more evenly across our leadership team, plus of course we shall continue to grow in number in all sections, which itself increases the load even more.

Another first for this year is a group day out, and on Saturday the 11th May, a coach is booked that will leave Tudor Road at 9am and take us to Cotswold Wildlife Park in Burford, Oxfordshire, where we shall spend the day touring the park looking at the animals etc. and returning to Tudor Road at about 5-30pm,more details will be given nearer the date but in the meantime use your new diaries and book the date.

On our return from the Christmas break, our growth continues,  as we shall be joined by new members coming off our waiting list, and joining our beavers,  and continuing the movement spoken of earlier,  some of our beavers are moving up to cubs and 1 of our cubs is moving up to scouts.

The start of the year always brings us to that dreadful C word, Capitation. Capitation or scout association membership fee, is the amount of money we have to pay for every young member who is registered with us on 31st January each year, this is census day. The amount, which is not negotiable, and we have no say in how it is determined, must be paid by the end of February. It is broken down by an amount that the national executive determine they require for the coming year to run scouting nationally, this in turn is added to the amount that the regional HQ, who mainly oversee training, decide that they will need, this then is added to both the county and district requirement respectively and the total is the amount that we pay as capitation, which for this coming year is £45 per head. Bear in mind we are paying in advance, so this February payment is for the coming year 2019. Subs paid on meeting nights go towards rent, lighting, badges and the general running cost of the group,and is never enough, so much so that we must fundraise through the year to keep going.

Some  parents have got upset at having to pay this figure. It is not something that we have kept secret, as I have mentioned it in these newsletters on more than one occasion, it is included in the welcome pack that new members receive, and the chairman of our executive committee has posted explanatory letters on our group facebook page. I accept that it is a lot of money to find immediately after the big spend period of Christmas,especially if you have 2 or more youngsters in membership, for which you can deduct 10% for the second and subsequent child, which is why we have in place a scheme whereby parents and carers can pay what they can afford ,when they can afford it, all through the year, your total of instalments are then deducted from your capitation requirement,which if you have paid enough through the year will result in a zero bill. Sadly this year parents did not take advantage of the scheme and we only had a total of £45 paid in by everyone over the entire year. It was also on the agenda at our annual general meeting for discussion to see if there was any other way the amount could be paid,again sadly only 2 parents turned up for the meeting so it could not be discussed. Although time is now very short we still have a little time left in which to pay in instalments, as some parents are now doing, if you would prefer to pay in this way, please speak to a leader or a member of the executive committee, on our return from Christmas break.

If you wish to have an input into the Capitation,and how we as a group pay it, remember we have no say as to the amount, join the group executive committee, you can nominate yourself for membership, you do not need to be voted on. The executive committee meet about 4 times a year and possibly once more before the AGM,and they look after the business side of the group, i.e Finance,Insurance,Fundraising,Licencing,Equipment,Storage etc. We could not function as a group without them,and you could ease their workload by joining them and having your say, just contact Andrew the executive committee chairman, and he will welcome you with open arms.

As can be expected all the leaders look forward to seeing our young members and to welcoming our new members on Thursday, until then take care of yourselves, take care of others, be kind to others and above all stay safe.

With regards,
John,
(King Louie)
